Let's talk about maven dependencies.
By putting a few lines of XML inside of the Palm XML file.
Spring Boot seems to just magically fetch all of the files that it needs to bootstrap a web application.
But one should wonder, where is it actually grabbing these files from?
In this lesson, you will learn the difference between the central maven repo versus the local maven
repo.
A dependency refers to a packaged library of files, i.e. jar files that your application can use.
Now the Central Maven repository is where MAVEN downloads your dependencies from.
The local maven repository is inside of your computer.
Once the dependencies have been downloaded, Maven puts all of them into your local repository.
So putting it all together when you run your application maven looks for the dependencies that it needs
inside your local repo.
If it finds them, it's going to use them in your project.
Otherwise it will download the dependencies from the central maven repo.
And then store them in the local maven repository.
From there, your application can use them.
So if we actually go back.
And run your spring boot application.
Notice that it doesn't really download anything.
We don't see any logs that say, oh, downloading this dependency from the central maven repo.
That's because it already downloaded all the dependencies from the previous run.
If you're using a mac, go to your desktop and then press command shift g.
And from here you can actually navigate to your local maven repo by going to M2 for Maven slash repository.
If you're using windows, go to the C drive.
Users.
Whatever your username is, then go to the maven, the M2 repository.
And inside of your local repository is where you'll find all of the dependencies that were downloaded
from the Central Maven repo.
Also a quick glance.
We'll show you that there are many packaging types.
There is jar wau pom rar zip, but it's not a maven core so we don't really care.
The take home message is a Maven dependency consists of a packaged library of files that your application
can leverage.
You can go ahead and delete all of them.
Now if you go back and rerun your spring boot application.
Now it re downloads all of the maven dependencies that it needs from the central maven repo.
You can see it says downloading from central and then it's going to store these dependencies inside
of your local repo as it's doing right now live.
And then from there, our application is going to use these dependencies to accomplish whatever that
it needs to do.
The latest dependency that we added was spring boot web, and now our application was able to effectively
leverage the files provided from the spring web dependency to kickstart an HTTP server on Port 1990.
So to recap, a dependency refers to a packaged library of files that your application depends on.
When your program needs a dependency, maven first looks for it in the local repository.
If found, it will use them.
Otherwise it will download all of the dependencies files from the Central Maven repository and store
them in your local repository.
And from there your application can use the dependency to accomplish whatever it is that it needs to
do.